(These sentences were translated with the translation software.)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Simple manual
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

---------------------------------------
 Explanation of menu
---------------------------------------
( file )
- New
	The map file is newly made. 
	Upper bounds of the map that can be made up to are 10000 in length, 
	and 10000 parts in side. 

- Open
	An existing file is opened. 

- Reload
	It reads again annulling the change of the file that is opening now. 

- Save
	The file editing it now new/is preserved in the superscription. 

- Save As
	The file editing it putting the alias is preserved. 

- Impoet
	Data is read from the file by the plug-in for reading. 
	Please read bundled "plugin.txt" about a detailed explanation. 

- Export
	Data is written file by using the plug-in for writing. 
	Please read bundled "plugin.txt" about a detailed explanation. 

- Exit
	The editor is ended. 

( edit )
- Undo
	The map editing immediately before is canceled. 
	Undo and possible Redo operations:
	It is a pen, a Thai ring pen, a cutout, and puts, paints out, and is 
	a replacement. 

- Redo
	It returns it to the state before it cancels. The limitation is the same up. 

- Cut
	It paints out with transparent parts if transparent parts are set after data within 
	the range of the selection is copied, and it is painted out with parts that have been 
	selected now if not set. 
	A similar operation is possible also by the Delete key. 

- Copy
	Data within the range of the selection is copied. 

- Paste
	The copied data is put within the present range of the selection. 
	(It is put on Platinum in another process that multiple started. )

- Select All
	The entire map is made the range of the selection. 

- Clear Selection
	A present range of the selection is released. 
	When the range of the selection is released with the range of the selection movement/
	reproduced, movement/reproduction is fixed. 

- Replace
	Parts of the replacement object are replaced with another parts. 
	Processing adjusts to all data of a current layer. 

- Fill
	It paints out with selection parts/definition pattern or transparent parts within 
	the range of the selection. 
	When the Ctrl+Delete key is pushed, the dialog is painted out with selection parts/
	definition pattern without going out. 

- Flash of cancellation buffer
	The history buffer swells up gradually when work is proceeded because it can do Undo Redo as long 
	as the memory permits. 
	Please the thing with a good head of preservation in the file etc. must not go and do the flash 
	and open the memory to an old history if the memory is pressed. I think that it need not worry 
	about it too much. 

- Project Option
	<< general tab >>
		General setting of project file. 
		- Only the file name
		  Only the file name of the part image is preserved in the project file. 
		  The same to project file directory should entered the part image. 
		- Relative path from project file
		  It preserves it in the project file by the relative path that sees passing the 
		  part image from the project file. 
		- Transparent parts are made effective. 
		  When the check is put, transparent parts are made effective. 
		  When the part number is input, the corresponding part number is considered 
		  transparent parts and not displayed. 

	<< grid tab >>
		Set grid color. 

	<< comment tab >>
		The comment can be written in the project. 

( Tool )
- Pen tool
	Parts or the definition patterns that have been selected now are arranged in 
	the map. 

- TPen tool
	To install within the range when the button is separated after the range 
	is specified with the mouse drug, parts/pattern is spread. 
	When a vertical line and box/frame is made, it is convenient. 

- Fill tool
	All parts that are thoroughly to parts at the clicked position adjacent 
	are painted out with the selection parts of the part window. 
	When two or more parts/pattern has been selected, parts on the left are 
	always used. 

- Select tool
	A rectangular range of the selection can be specified. 
	The made range of the selection can be cut out, be copied, and be put. 
	Data within the range of the selection can be moved by the range of the selection 
	dropping in drug &. 
	Data within the range of the selection can be reproduced by the range of the selection 
	dropping in drug & while pushing the Ctrl key. 
	If the Shift key is used together at the same time, all visible layers become objects. 
	When the range of the selection is switched to the release/other tool, movement/
	reproduction is fixed. 

- Pattern tool
	Parts at the clicked position on the editor side are selected as current parts. 
	The pattern can be defined by the drag & drop operation. 
	It comes to be able to put the defined pattern in pen/Thai ring pen/painting out. 
	When parts are newly selected in the part window, the pattern definition is 
	automatically released. 
	The mouse right button operation temporarily changes into the pattern definition tool. 

- Hand tool
	When the screen is dragged with the mouse, the screen can be scrolled. 
	When the hand tool is temporarily used when other tools are used,
	it keeps pushing the space key. 

- Resize
	The size of the map is changed. 
	It is necessary not to be able to cancel, please. 

- Scroll
	The map data of a current layer(or all layers) is moved.


( Layer )
- Add Layer
	An empty layer is made. 
	The size of the layer (width and height) is fixation by the whole project. 
	When transparent parts are effective, the entire layer is painted out with 
	transparent parts. 

- Duplicate Layer
	The layer that has been selected now is reproduced. 
	The part image related to the layer in the reproduction origin is related 
	together. 

- Erase Layer
	The layer that has been selected now is deleted. 
	- It is not possible to cancel. 

- Select Upper Layer. 
	One of the current layers layer above is selected. 

- Select Lower Layer. 
	One of the current layers layer below is selected. 

- Layer Option
	The dialog to which the setting of the layer is changed is put out. 
	It is possible to change in the change in the name and the part image used. 
	- The reading button of the part window is used to read the part image newly. 

( View )
- Zoom In
	The display size of the editor window is expanded at intervals of 25%. 

- Zoom Out
	The display size of the editor window is reduced at intervals of 25%. 

- Reset Zoom
	The display size is reset. 

- Zoom In(parts)
	The display size of the parts window is expanded at intervals of 25%. 

- Zoom Out(parts)
	The display size of the parts window is reduced at intervals of 25%. 

- Reset Zoom(parts)
	The display size of the parts windpow is reset. 

- Show Grid
	The grid of the sizes of parts is displayed. 

- Show Cursor Grid
	The grid is displayed at the cursor position by the size of parts/pattern that has 
	been selected. 

- Show Marker
	A triangular sign (marker) is displayed in visible parts of a current layer 
	putting it. 
	Another layer not intended by mistake if this is displayed can be prevented being 
	edited. 
	Please note that the marker takes side with all parts as for this function if 
	transparent parts are not made effective. 

- Fog Mode
	Layers other than a current layer are displayed by translucent. 
	The current layer marker and the outline function regardless of the setting of 
	transparent parts though it is the same. 

- Show Number
	A data number is displayed on the part of a current layer.

- Enable Transparentry
	The penetration processing by the penetration color is done. 
	It is not drawn to the color when the penetration color is contained in parts, 
	the layer below is transparent, and it sees it. 

- Select Trans Color
	The penetrated color is selected. 
	This penetration color adjusts to all layers. 
	In general, the color used well as a penetration color is registered in the 
	color selection dialog. 
	It is possible to set it even if it Ctrl + clicks in the vicinity of the 
	color where it wants to penetrate the part window. 

( Window )
- Parts window
	Display/non-display of the part window is switched. 

- Layer window
	Display/non-display of the layer window is switched. 

- Preview window
	Display/non-display of the over view window is switched. 


( help )
- Version Info
	Information of the application. 


---------------------------------------
 Futures
---------------------------------------
- Pattern definition
A part of the map data is defined as a pattern and the edit and painting out with 
the pen are possible. 

- Unrestricted Undo and Redo
"Cancellation" and "Re-doing" can be done to the operation to make a change 
to the map data. 
Undo and possible Redo operations:
It puts, it paints out, it replaces, and it movement/reproduces the pen, 
the Thai ring pen, and the cutout. 

- Paste of map data by specification of range of selection
It cuts out, and the map data can be pasted by copying and putting. 

- Data in the selection area movement/is reproduced (Visible all layer is an 
object ..pushing the Shift key.. ..putting out..). 

- Layer
The map with an upper and lower position is made, and for the event ..one of the layers... 

It uses as a flag map, and the usage like the use of the layer that stores hit judgment 
information etc. is various. 
When thinking that power of expression is insufficient, one part image is good at two 
or more layers to make one map composed repeatedly because it can have the part image 
of each layer. 
It is possible to make it by 255 layers or less. 

- Reduced display and movement on screen of map with over view window

- Penetration processing
Cararkeing of each pixel. 
The set penetration color is not displayed, the layer below 
penetrates, and it sees it. 

- Writing format
Writing with the CSV file and the bit map file besides the FMF file of a simple data structure 
is possible. 
The source code of C++ and Delphi is appended as a reading sample. 

- I/O plug-in
The plug-in for read/writing is supported. 
An original file format can be freely added back. 

- Transparent parts
They are parts paved in the part where parts do not exist. 
It is possible to make it to can the specification of one arbitrary 
part number, and cannot the use of transparent parts. 
It changes from the project setting in the setting. 


---------------------------------------
 Quick start
---------------------------------------
1."New" of the file menu is selected and a new map of an arbitrary size is 
made. 
2.The reading button of the part window is pushed or the part image drops in drug & in the part 
window, and the part image that wants to treat with the layer is read. 
3.When two or more layers are treated, transparent parts are made effective by setting the 
project and transparent parts are specified. 
4.After parts are selected in the part window, the map is constructed with an arbitrary tool. 
The part image is not allocated in the layer at the stage where a new layer was added, and 
read the part image, please by the above-mentioned method. 
When some part images have already been read, the part image can be specified from the layer 
setting. 
When the part image is shut, the reference is released from all layers that refer to the part 
image. 
5.When the map is completed, the map data is written by an arbitrary format. 


---------------------------------------
 Tips
---------------------------------------
- About the general operation
1.After the image is read, it relates it to a current layer when the 
part image is done to the part window in Drag&Drop. 
2.When the project file is done to the editor window in Drag&Drop, the project is opened. 
3.When the part image is edited on the outside, the rereading seeing is 
automatically done. 
4.The pattern that can be made with parts and the pattern definition tools that can 
be selected in the part window is in an exclusive relation, is released the pattern 
when parts are selected, and when the pattern is selected, the selection of parts is 
released. 
As for the pen, the Thai ring pen, and painting out, etc. either of these parts/
pattern is used. 
5.When parts are double-clicked in the part window, the parts are set to transparent 
parts. 
6.The range of the selection can be reproduced and data within the range of the selection 
of a current layer be reproduced by being able to move data within the range of the 
selection of a current layer by doing Drag&Drop with the mouse, and doing Drag&Drop while 
pushing the Ctrl key. 
7.A visible all layer becomes an object when movement/reproducing while 
pushing the Shift key though movement/reproduction of the above-mentioned 
selection range data adjusts only to a current layer. 
8.The pop-up menu to which it can reproduction/synthesize it comes out when right-
clicking in the layer window. 

- About the mause operation
1.A left button is allocated in the pen, the Thai ring pen, and the tool such as 
making the range of the selection. 
2.A right button temporarily changes into the pattern definition tool only 
while being pushing the button. 
3.The screen can be scrolled with the wheel up and down. When the wheel is turned 
while pushing the Ctrl key, it scrolls right and left. 
5.The color at the clicked cursor position is set as a penetration color of the penetration processing when clicking while pushing the Ctrl key in the part window. 

- About the key operation
1.Keyboard short-cut is allocated in the menu operation often used. 
2.F key is allocated in various tools (A part of tool is allocated in A, Z, X, C, and V). 
3.The screen can be scrolled with the arrow key. 
4.The screen can be freely scrolled with the mouse while the space key is being 
pushed. 
5.Whenever the Esc key is pushed, a temporary display & non-display of parts/layer/over view 
window can be done. 
6.When the Delete key is pushed, it paints out with 'Transparent parts' within 
the range of the selection. 
When the Ctrl+delete key is pushed, it paints out with 'Selection pattern/
definition pattern' within the range of the selection. 
7.It uses, when choosing a part from the part chosen by
d, f, g, and the r key now relatively.

- Application setting of addition
The setting of the addition becomes effective by adding the key following the
application setting of the addition to the General section of Platinum.ini. 

  zoomratio=n (n=16..128)	Zoom coefficient.(Change appears greatly,
				so that a numerical value is large.)
  numbercolortype=n (n=0..5)	The color of the number used by 'Show number'
				(0=black, 1=white, 2=gray, 3=anyting,
				4=GridColor, 5=CursorGridColor)
  numbercolor=n (n=0..16777215)	Parts number color(numbercolortype=3)
  boxnumber=n (n=0|1)		It draws to the box in the character of the part number. 
  numberbkcolor=n (n=0..16777215) Box color.(boxnumber=1)
  gridmin=n (n=1..)		Lower bound limit of grid display.
  numbermin=n (n=1..)		Lower bound limit of part number display.
  forceinvnum=n (n=0|1)		There is a check in 'Display of the part number'
				when one is specified. 
				Only visible parts other than transparent parts are displayed. 
  syncmaingrid=n (n=0|1)	If 1 is specified, the grid display state of a part window is
				synchronized with the grid display state of a main window.
  autoactive=n (n=0|1)		If cursor goes into a main window, a focus
				will move to a main window automatically.
  usetranslucentselect=n (n=0|1) Specification of 1 carries out translucence processing
				 of the display of the selection range.
  pwinalpha=n (n=0..255)	The transparency of a parts window is specified (opaque at 255).
  lwinalpha=n (n=0..255)	The transparency of a layer window is specified (opaque at 255).
  owinalpha=n (n=0..255)	The transparency of a preview window is specified (opaque at 255).
Å@				(pwinalpha, lwinalpha, and owinalpha become effective by 
				the system more than Windows2000.)


---------------------------------------
 Explanation of FMF file
---------------------------------------
The header, and the FMF file is a binary file that consists of one or more layer 
data, and simple file structure. 
Header area (20Byte) is recorded at the head and the layerCount number of FMF 
headers is output to the layer data block afterwards. 

The size of layer N area of one layer area of 0 layer areas of the 
header area header area fixes 20 bytes. 
The size of each layer area is mapWidth*mapHeight*(bitCount/8) byte. 

- About the mark of the data size
[U1]	unsigned char (1byte)
[U4]	unsigned integer (4byte)
Byte order is Little endian recorded from the low rank byte. 

<< FMF file header (20 byte) >>

+0 	identifier [U4]		// file identifier(0x5F464D46)
+4	Data size [U4]
+8 	Width of map [U4]
+12	Height of map [U4]
+16	Width of parts [U1]
+17	Height of parts [U1]
+18	Number of layer [U1]
+19	Bit count of data [U1] // (8 or 16)

<< Layer data >>
The values of the map parts queue up in mapWidth*mapHeight piece and Beta. 

When one part eight bit (1byte) bitCount is 16 when bitCount is eight, 
one part are 16 bits. (2byte)

The data size of one layer is as follows. 
layerSize = mapWidth * mapHeight * (bitCount / 8);
Moreover,
fileSize = headerSize(20bytes) + layerSize * layerCount;
It becomes it. 

*Please refer to an attached source code for details. 
